---
sidebar_position: 4
---
import IdealImage from '@site/src/components/IdealImage';

# IoT Architecture
<div style={{ textAlign: "justify" }}>
The system has a layered architecture, which comprises three layers such as Perception, Network, and Application. This layered architecture ensures that data is effectively collected, transmitted, processed, and utilized, allowing for efficient and scalable IoT systems. Each layer has distinct roles and responsibilities, contributing to the overall functionality and performance of the IoT system.

<IdealImage 
  src={require('@site/static/img/Intro/iotarchitecture.jpg').default} 
  alt="iotarchitecture" 
  className="custom-img" 
  caption="Source: Own work" 
/>

## Perception Layer
This layer comprises all the physical devices that collect data from the environment and execute actions based on processed data. Sensors in this layer gather data such as temperature, humidity, or motion, providing essential input to the system. Actuators perform specific actions like turning on a light or opening a valve, responding to the data and commands processed. Processors handle the data processing and control functions, ensuring that the right actions are taken based on the analyzed information. Data storage capabilities allow for the local retention of collected data, enabling quick access and retrieval when needed. Embedded operating systems or software manage the overall operations of these devices, ensuring seamless functionality and integration within the IoT ecosystem. This comprehensive layer is fundamental to the effective operation of IoT systems, bridging the gap between the physical and digital worlds.

## Network Layer
The IoT network layer plays a critical role in ensuring efficient communication and data flow within the IoT ecosystem. It comprises two main components: the Proximity Network and the Access Network. The Proximity Network connects edge devices, such as sensors and actuators, to intermediate systems like SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition), facilitating close-range communication and initial data aggregation. This network is essential for collecting and processing data at the edge, ensuring timely responses to immediate environmental changes. The Access Network, on the other hand, provides broader connectivity, enabling the transmission of data from the proximity network to higher-level application and cloud systems. This network ensures that the data collected and aggregated at the edge can be transmitted to centralized systems for further analysis, storage, and decision-making. Together, these networks form the backbone of IoT infrastructure, enabling seamless data flow and communication across the entire IoT ecosystem.

## Aplication Layer
The application layer of IoT is where the collected data is transformed into valuable insights and actions, encompassing the software and services that process, analyze, and act on this data. This layer includes industrial applications that use data for specific use cases, such as predictive maintenance or automation in manufacturing. It also leverages cloud infrastructure to provide the necessary capacity for storing and processing vast amounts of data generated by IoT devices. Data processing and analytics within this layer analyze the incoming data to generate actionable insights, facilitating informed decision-making. Additionally, enterprise applications are tailored to support various business processes, enhancing operational efficiency and strategic planning. By converting raw data into meaningful information, the application layer is crucial for realizing the full potential of IoT systems and delivering tangible benefits across different sectors.


</div>